gae-experiment-base
==================

Base experiment code for web experiments hosted on Google App Engine For Python (2.7)

### Requires:

- Python 2.7
- Google AppEngineLauncher for Python: [here](https://developers.google.com/appengine/downloads#Google_App_Engine_SDK_for_Python)
- Google App command line tools (for downloading data from server). This must be done when starting Google AppEngineLauncher

### Files and what they do:

- In exp folder:  
    - app.yaml: (often needs to be changed - app name and version number)
        - defines app name and version number (along with what version of python to use)
        - Handlers section - specify how URLs should be routed to the files in your folder (can be left alone)
        - Libraries section - which libraries are used (can be left alone)
        - Builtins - turns remote_api on (necessary for data download)
        
    - backend.py: (can be left alone in most cases)
        - loads index.html (via JINJA) and displays it
        - defines the structure of the data to save (DataObject section)
        - is the code that first gets called when people go to the experiment page
     
    - backend.pyc: is automatically generated by python based on backend.py
    
    - bulkloader.yaml: (can be left alone)
        - tells the data downloader how the data from Google will be formatted
        - must match backend.py
    - index.html: actual html of the experiment that is loaded by backend.py (often will be changed to add new buttons/sliders/etc)
    - In css folder:
        - style.css: specifies css for index.html and experiment.s (usually can be left alone)
    - In html folder:
        - many files that are loaded by experiment.js during the experiment
    - In js folder:
        - init_exp.js: only javascript file loaded by index.html (except for JQuery), loads all other javascript files. This file is unlikely to require changes (unless you want to remove the slider).
        - support_fcns.js: routine javascript functions to handle loading and reading the demographics information, loading the instructions, checking the instruction comprehension questions, writing the data to the server, and clearing/displaying the canvas and buttons. This file is unlikely to require changes.
        - exp_logic.js: guts of the experiment. Will need to be changed for your experiment.
          
- In analysis folder:
    - read.R: read in the raw file downloaded from App Engine and parse the JSON to create (and save) an RData object (calls parser.py). You might need to change input_file (line 2) to match the name of the file you download it from Google App Engine if the name gets changed.
    - parser.py: parses raw GAE result (it assumes a tab-delimited file) into CSV file suitable to be read into R (by read.R). Takes two parameters: the file to read and the name of the file to write the results to.


# Notes about the experiment code

### How does the experiment code work?

Different sections of the experiment call each other in sequence. Currently the order is:  
1. ask for the user to specify what condition to use (this is when in debugging mode)
10. show introduction
10. collect demographics information  
10. provide instructions  
10. test instruction comprehension  
10. for each block within the experiment:  
        - display training trials  
        - display test trials  
10. display thank you message and feedback for MTurk users  


### Notes for modifying the experiment code
- all locations in the javascript files where the slider is referenced are marked with a comment SLIDER comment.
- all locations in the javascript files where between-subject conditions are referenced are marked with CONDITION comment.


# Running the experiment code:

### How to run locally for testing (in Chrome)?

1. Open Google AppEngineLauncher
2. File -> Add Existing Application
3. Navigate to this folder
4. Click Add
5. Click Run in AppEngineLauncher
6. Navigate in browser to localhost:8080
7. Generate some data
7. To inspect the data you created, in the App Engine Launcher click on SDK Console and then on Datastore Viewer

### How to upload your experiment to the google server

1. Go to https://appengine.google.com/ and click Create Application
2. Application Identifier - only you use it but you need to know it for later
3. Application Title - this will appear as the label on the tab in the web browser of your experiment
4. Edit the first line of app.yaml to match your Application Identifier
5. In Google App Engine, click on Deploy and then enter the necessary credentials

### How to upload a new version of your experiment

1. change whatever you needed to change in the experiment
2. Edit app.yaml to have a new version number (usually by adding one)
3. In Google App Engine, click Deploy
4. click Dashboard
5. On the dashboard, click Versions (under Main in the left bar)
6. Set your new version as Default

### How to check on the data once deployed to the web

1. Open the dashboard for your experiment (via Google App Engine)
2. Click Datastore Viewer (under Data in the left bar)
3. Enjoy

# After running the experiment:

### How to download data from the GAE webpage:

enter this at the command line:  

```
appcfg.py download_data --config_file=bulkloader.yaml --filename=data.csv --kind=DataObject --url=http://<app_name>.appspot.com/_ah/remote_api
```

Note: The local testing in Google App Engine currently doesn't support batch download

#### If you change the data being written:

- you'll have to re-create the download data file (bulkloader.yaml)

```
appcfg.py create_bulkloader_config --filename=bulkloader.yaml --url=http://<app_name>.appspot.com/_ah/remote_api
```

- Then set the line in the new bulkloader.yaml `connector:` to `connector: csv` and set the delimiter to tab-based.
 
